Hi everybody, Andy here. Just before we start this week's show we wanted to introduce our
special guest. She has been on the show once before and she was so great that we thought
we had to have her back. It is the brilliant Sophie Duker. If you don't know Sophie already,
if you didn't listen to the episode she was already on, if you haven't seen her on Taskmaster,
she is a fantastic stand-up, she's really brilliant and you're about to hear that on
the show. So there's no need for further evidence of it really, but if once you've heard this show
you would like to see or hear a little bit more of Sophie's comedy, as you will, there are a
couple of ways to do that. So firstly she had a tour earlier this year which was called "Hag".
That tour sold out and also is in the past so it's impossible to see it, but there are new
dates added to that tour. They're all on her website which is SophieDuker.com, a very Ronsiol
website there, but it does contain those dates so that's why you want to visit there. The other
thing she's doing soon is that on the 26th of October this year she is hosting a one-off edition
mega show at Hackney Empire in London. It's a show she's done loads of times before, it's called
"Wacky Racists", but this one is going to be a bigger and better edition than ever. There are
going to be all-star guests, there are going to be stand-ups, there are going to be songs,
there are going to be stupid games, you name it, it will be there. It's going to be great fun.
That's it for this introduction, I hope you've enjoyed it, but not as much as I hope you enjoy
the show itself. On with the show.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast this week coming
to you live from the Soho Theatre in London. My name is Dan Schreiber, I'm sitting here with
James Harkin, Andrew Hunter Murray and Sophie Juker and once again we have gathered around the
microphones with our four favourite facts from the last seven days and in no particular order
here we go. Starting with fact number one and that is Sophie. What an honour. Oh, oh you're welcome.
My fact is, Barbie, the lady of the moment, was based on a high-end German cool girl.
That's right, there's a sex worker in your child's bedroom.
That little freesong, that was 150 people just being slightly titillated by that thing.
And shocked. Yes, shocked as well. She's based on a different doll, is Barbie. Picture the scene,
it's 1956. Cool. Your Ruth Handler, the inventor of Barbie. My mum was born 1956 and now I've
got my mum in my head which might make this next bit difficult. It will. You're there with your mum.
It's pretty sexy and in the window. Dan's mum has just been born. Oh sorry.
Like back to the future. This is way, way beyond. Your mum's been born, she's in a crib somewhere,
she's not involved. Cool. You are the doll, it doesn't matter who you are. It's 1956,
there's a doll in a window. The doll is Bild Lilly. Bild is a German tabloid and Lilly is the doll that
is sold in association with that tabloid and she was sort of a sexy, flusy. And that is what Barbie
is based on. When Ruth Handler saw Lilly in the window, she said and I quote, "I didn't know then
who Lilly was. I saw only an adult-shaped body that I had been trying to describe for years,
which I love because presumably all around her were adults." But I would say no adults in the
same shape as Barbie though. No, true. She's got weird proportions. And dolls, dolls were for children
and they were of children, weren't they, at the time? Yeah, that was the revolutionary thing.
If anyone's seen the Barbie movie, which we are not promoting because their budget is big enough,
but if you've seen the Barbie movie, you'll see that a lot of dolls for kids were just of kids,
but Barbie was this like sexy, well not sexy, Barbie's not sexy, but she was kind of like older,
mature. Yeah. I read there was a journalist from the New Yorker magazine called Ariel Levy who
later referred to this as a sex doll, Lilly. Now, she was still only six inches high. Right, right.
Oh, really? So, I don't know. I'd take some imagination to use that as a sex doll, I imagine.
But they used to give it to people, like if you went on a stag do, you might get this
sexy doll, right? Or they would, some men would hang it on their windscreen of their car and stuff
like that. It's just like a sexy thing. Because that's what you do with your sex toys, you put them.
Barbie gets a lot of stick for being regressive, but I think Ruth Handler was very progressive
and she was a very, she was an ambitious businesswoman. It was her and her husband,
Elliot. They founded the company together. They made all the decisions about it. And I think the
idea was that Barbie would never get married. Barbie was able to, it was to expand girls imaginations
about what they could do and that their imaginations should extend beyond marriage and motherhood is
the basic idea. Okay, right. Yeah, so in that sense, she did start as a fashion model and then
became a fashion editor the next year and then a fashion designer, but it's maybe career progression.
Okay, Barbie did do a lot of stuff other than that. She went to space before Matt even went to
the moon. There was astronaut Barbie. Four years before Matt went to the moon, there was astronaut
Barbie. Okay, but we did go to space before we went to the moon, just not to... Yeah, okay, so.
Before... Not to shit on that. Yeah, okay. Has Barbie been to the moon? Before we could even have
bank accounts. Oh, yeah. Barbie bought her first dream house. Oh, okay. Yeah, in 1962 she bought the
dream house. Wow. With whose money? Ken's. Yes, Ken's right. That's amazing. I like as well,
just speaking of astronauts, so the fact that Barbie was designed by a guy called Jack Ryan,
at least the physical making of Barbie was. And he was a guy who is, he was an engineer for the
Pentagon. He made missiles. So he was, yeah, he was someone who's had a whole different career,
and then Mattel hired him. And he worked out amazing things, like the fact that she had a
twistable waist, that was a new innovation to toys. And I don't know if you remember this, and I
very much remember this, the clickable knees of Barbie. How do you remember this? Because I used
to bring to school every day a disembodied leg of Barbie with me. Mr. Shriver, Mrs. Shriver, come in.
Yeah, it's nothing bad. So I used to, when I was younger, and I still kind of do, and I should
have a Barbie leg on me again, actually, and this is advice for everyone listening.
I click my fingers a lot, obsessively click my fingers, and I needed something to stop me. And
the clickable leg of a Barbie gives you the same sensation as clicking your own finger. So I used
to sit in class. So you probably disembodied leg. Yeah, I just used to sit clicking Barbie's leg over
and over in school. And your sister had to bring in a Barbie with at least one of its legs missing.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, she wasn't too happy about that. But I genuinely tried out if you've got
a problem with clicking your fingers. Okay. Pretty. But I also think it's really interesting. I didn't
know that the guy that designed Barbie was a missiles designer because he actually made some
quite big, that well Mattel made some quite big changes to Barbie when they changed her from
the original prototype of Bill D'Lilli and the model which Mattel then bought up. They softened
her eyebrows, relaxed her lips, upgraded her plastic and whited her skin. Okay.
Well, we don't know what she could have been green.
And at one point the nipples and breasts of an early prototype were daintily filed off.
Oh, can you daintily file nipples? It's a more difficult process than that. But related to that,
of course, is Ken's bulge. Oh, yeah. Which I haven't seen the movie, but I believe they reference
in the movie. And Ruth Handler, who created Barbie, she wanted Ken to have a proper bulge in his groin.
And the people at Mattel were having none of it. They thought that no mother would buy a doll,
which had a bulge in its groin. And this became a really big argument. They brought in a Freudian
psychologist to ask them what to do. And he said, oh, yeah, well, all the girls are just going to
want to undress Ken. So, you know, you're going to have to think about it. You're going to have to
do something. What were they thinking when they brought in a Freudian psychologist?
Completely find a normal. Yeah, don't worry about it. Yeah, bringing a leg of a Barbie in school,
completely normal. It's normal to fancy your mum when she's just born. Absolutely.
But they came up with a solution, which was they were going to mold the swimsuit directly onto Ken.
So you wouldn't be able to get the swimsuit off. Did they do that? And they were going to put a very
slight bump in the groin. So just enough that would keep Ruth happy, but not enough that would scare
people off. But the problem was that it all came down to finance in the end. So putting the shots
up, molding the shots on cost a couple of cents. Putting the extra lump on was about half a cent
worth of plastic. And they decided over the millions that they were going to make, it wasn't
worth it to do it. And so that's why he ended up with the bulge. Yeah. Wow. That's a little bulge.
Wow. Yeah. And we were talking about Barbies in space earlier. Yeah. Something about sex dolls in
space. The Russian cosmonaut Valery Polyakov, he spent the record amount of time on the MIR
space station. And according to him, the Russian government offered him a sex doll for his time
on the MIR. Oh, wow. Wait, what was the record? Do you know the record time? 14 months he was there.
Long time. It's a long time without a sex doll. Long time. Yep. But Polyakov decided that he
wouldn't take the sex doll onto MIR. Can you guess why he decided not to? Because it's so embarrassing.
Because there's no one up. No, it's not like the aliens are going to turn up and go, what's this?
Cosmonaut Polyakov, we're getting your broadcast louder. Wait, is there an extra astronaut floating
past you? No, that wasn't it. Cos he was married. Oh, he was married actually, but that wasn't,
I guess it was kind of the reason. He decided that if he started using the sex doll in space,
he might get so used to it that he wouldn't be able to give it up when he got back down to Earth.
Right. Whereas on Earth, you do, is it different in space to sleep? I suppose you're lonely.
You might form an attachment like Tom Hanks and Wilson. Exactly. It goes away. Yeah. Did he have
sex with that? It's implied. It's pretty heavily implied, guys. I don't know the Russian history
with sex dolls, but I did find out a fact when I was researching sex dolls, not for this, that in
2018, the mummified remains of a Russian man were found in his home and he was embracing
a sex doll on the sofa like in Pompeii. When I said like in Pompeii, I meant nothing like Pompeii.
We don't know that the sex dolls weren't in Pompeii because they would never have survived the
volcano, would they? That's a good point. They didn't have the first things to go.
Oh, we've got another Barbie thing. Can we talk about the Teen Talk Barbie?
Okay. This was a later variable. So it was 1992. This was released. And each of the dolls sold
said four of 270 possible phrases, right? So my doll might say four different things to your doll.
They worked out that they would have to sell 200 million of these things for there to be
the odds that two of them would say exactly the same four phrases. That's a big selling point,
obviously. But this was a controversial one because it's the one that said math class is tough
as one of the phrases. And that's been slightly misremembered as her saying math is hard,
which she didn't say, but she did say math. It's pretty much the same thing.
Yeah, it's pretty similar. And so this is prompted a bit of a pushback from people saying this isn't
a great message to say to girls. And in 1993, the next year, there was this group of performance
artists in Manhattan. They called themselves the Barbie Liberation Front, right? And this is
what they did. This is so good. They bought a load of Teen Talk Barbies off the shelf.
They also bought a load of G.I. Joe talking Duke dolls, right? They swapped the voice boxes
and then they put them back on the shelves. So you ended up with people who bought G.I. Joe dolls,
which said, will we ever have enough clothes or let's plan our dream wedding? And meanwhile,
the matching Barbie was saying things like eat lead. That's so good. It is time for fact number
two. And that is Andy. My fact is that Eastern screech owls have live in snakes as housekeepers,
which their children sometimes eat. There's quite a bit going on here.
There's a new book out, a new owl book out by Jennifer Ackerman and it's called What an Owl
Knows as a Great Book. And she quotes this amazing study. There was a scientist called
Frederick Gelbach who studied the Eastern screech owl, right? This is an owl. It lives in a nest.
It lives in kind of Texas and thereabouts. Oh, it should be kind of called the Western
screech owl. They probably know what they're doing. Imagine they listen and they go, fuck,
we're finally rumbled. We had like a hundred years of no one noticing. Murray?
And basically it turns out one in five nests of this Eastern screech owl contains a live snake
because the parents go and get food for the chicks and they bring back these snakes alive to the
nest and they bring them back and some of them get eaten, a few do, but a lot burrow down into
the nest which is full of stuff that snakes love. You know, it's half-eaten bits of food and pellets
and all sorts of fecal matter. And so a lot of insects turn up to eat those horrible things and
the snakes actually they like to eat the insects. So they tidy up the nest for the owls and it's
good because the owl chicks in snakes which contain a live housekeeping snake grow up bigger and
stronger and healthier than the chicks in the nest which don't contain a live snake. So it's
actually a kind of, it's a mutual thing that's going on. Here's the thing though, just for
people's image at home of what's happening here. When we say snake, yeah, it's probably like a
cobra, right? Exactly. We're talking like, you know, they're twirling up and stuff. These things
are like smaller than worms, right? Like they're super tiny, exactly because there's a cool image
in your head of like a giant snake. Yeah, yeah, these are like little tiny little, oh yeah, but
they're snakes. They're small snakes. Oh, no, no, absolutely. Just, just. If you saw one, you would
genuinely think it was a worm. The only difference is they have scales but the scales are almost
impossible to see. It literally just looks like a worm. Yeah, but they're one cool thing. They eat a
lot of other insects like they eat ants and stuff like that. But they like to eat baby ants and
they go into their ants' nests but obviously all the ants are going to attack them. And so what they
do is they secrete a noxious chemical and they shit at the same time and they mix these two
things up and they roll around in it so they're covered in noxious shit and then the ants will
not go near them and then they can nom, nom, nom, nom, nom. Brilliant, Al. Yeah. I didn't look up any
facts about the tiny snakes but I did think how do these Al babies get here? It's going to be through
Al's sex. Oh yeah. Very true. Yeah. Al's have sex in a really interesting way so like they don't
have sex how we would imagine. Yeah. Yeah, sex. How are you imagining just for the... It's 1956.
Do you imagine like a sort of... I'm, I'm, I'm finding a little better actually. I'm really
trying to imagine. I'm thinking like doggy style because they can move their heads 360 degrees
around. Just like, just like pet me. But I was thinking, yeah, that's going to be a scary moment.
What? Just when the head of your doggy style and suddenly the person's face is there again.
It's basically like the exorcist, isn't it? I'd call an Uber at that point. It was so nice
meeting you. Blue eyes, I never properly noticed. I think you can have some respect. Call it hourly
style. Okay. Hourly style. Yeah, yeah. Oh my God. Hourly style sets. They only have sex in one
position so you don't have to learn a whole bunch of different things. Okay. They've got a
cloaca which is an internal chamber with an opening and when it opens... An eternal chamber.
Internal, not eternal. Quite a, quite a nice way of putting it, the eternal chamber. The eternal
chamber. Sure. It's a temporary chamber, opens up temporarily inside the chamber.
It's either, depending on the sex of the owl, testes or ovaries. Wow. It's a rub of
requirement for the owl's jump. And when the owls want to get jiggy with it, get hourly with it,
they, the cloaca protrudes slightly and they rub them against each other. And that is owl sex.
Like the sperm goes into the female cloaca, virtualizes the egg. Just one position. Okay.
No kissing. Nice. No kissing. But it is called a cloacal kiss. So it's a kiss in a way. Oh,
that is sweet. Do you know how eastern screech owls persuade their children to move away?
Do they explain to them how they had sex? Clearly.
The eternal chamber is opening. Fly my children. No, they withhold food
and then they remove any food they've stored in the nest. They basically empty the fridge
and the cupboards. Oh, wow. Sorry. That's a great idea. And they also have a particular call,
which equates to go away. And it's all, obviously, it's good. It's to persuade them to, you know,
move on to the next stage of their life. So it is a good thing. Right. That's right. But
all owls have different tactics for getting their children to babies to fledge. Yeah, yeah.
You know, so in, in sort of Western culture, we might have the boogie man as a terrifying
thing for children. Do you know in Hungary what they have? What a Hungarian boogie man. Is it the
boogie owl by any chance? It's the copper penis owl. Oh, gosh. Yeah. And if you're not careful,
copper penis owl is going to come for you. So what it is, if you picture a boogie man,
this is the same thing, but it's an owl with a copper penis. Is it copper colored or is it just
metal? That's like metal. It's a copper penis. Is it oxidized? Is it? Yeah. But what's the threat
if it's just a penis? Oh, he'll steal you. He'll steal you. Oh, he'll steal you. The detail of the
copper penis is not relevant, in fact. It's like, he just happens. It's noticeable. Like if you
described, described the owl that took your child, he could do the head thing and then there was this
metal penis. It wasn't weird not to mention it in a way. Yeah. And it is like owls are associated
with death around the world, I think. Quite often there'll be a superstition where if you see an owl,
someone's going to die really soon. And there's quite a few theories as to why that happens. So
there was one guy who's an owl expert from South Africa who reckons that because people
quite often have heart attacks in the middle of the night and that's when owls are around.
Perhaps people have died and they've heard an owl and they associate them together.
There's another theory from Italy that you would put a body outside when someone's died and you
would put candles around it and the moths are attracted to the candles and then the owls are
attracted to the moths. So that's one possible version. And another version from India is that
possibly like in cemeteries you might leave food offerings for people and then you might get like
mice and rats coming for the food offerings and then the owls come for the mice or the rats.
Okay. So that's probably why all around the world people have this association.
It does. South Africa and they get a really bad rap in lots of places and they're not
beloved universally around the world and there are some places where they're still really ill
omany. In Ghana in the forest a lot of people associate them with witchcraft but it's actually
really important with the owl stay because otherwise the forests are full of rats.
Right. Exactly. There was a prediction in 2015 that wind turbines might all
be made like owls. To look like owls? To be given feathers. Because owls fly so quietly.
Because they do. It has to do with particular feathers they've got at the leading edge of
their wings. Right. And there was a suggestion why don't we just put feathers on all our wind
turbines so that they can turn faster and be quieter. And I don't want to live in a world
where we don't have feathery wind turbines. Yeah. That's cool. I just love it.
Not as part of research for this but I was reading today that we might be turning humans
into wind turbines soon. And go on. So it's a technology. I didn't fully read so I wasn't
prepared to talk about it today. But what it is is you'd have a contraption on you and what
they've worked out is that when we're walking we're moving our arms all the time, right?
Right. So we're generating movement. We're generating energy in the same way that a turbine
might. So why not bottle our arm swing and then we can power ourselves at night?
I know they can't see you on the podcast but you're literally walking like a Lego man.
Also Dan, sorry, I can power myself at night already.
I don't need the hardest energy of my arm swing from the day. What do you mean we can
power ourselves at night? Well it might charge your phone when you're asleep.
Exactly. Or the arm movement. No, no, you're generating for that. Okay, look, we're different.
But you do get, I've read about there's been some gyms where they attach the treadmills
to the lights and they get the lights going by people going on the treadmills all day.
That is very cool. Yeah, I like that. It's possible. Okay, he likes that. That's fine.
Sophie, we're one four and one against at the moment. Could you make the final call?
I don't like it. I, what if you've not got very strong arms, long arms? What if you've got no arms?
Is this the hell I want to die on? Okay, this is not Dragon's Den. I didn't invent this.
This is a thing that is happening. Can I ask, can you attach it to other parts of your body that
swing while you're walking? What a confident way of putting it here. Do you think, oh,
I'm actually powering a small turbine down here? Actually powering the whole of Milton Keyes just
walking to the shops. Can I tell you about the International Owl Centre in Minnesota?
This is an amazing place. They do lots of brilliant work with owls, International Owl Centre,
and staff have to be able to do owl noises to get a job. It's so cool. Is that just what
they claim in the interview? Put on, like you put on your CV, you know, barn gray, all of that.
No, because people come into the office saying, I heard a particular owl. Can you help me identify
it? And the staff obviously have to be able to say, Oh, did it go? Or did it go? Or whatever.
That helps you identify it. So, you know, they may as well. Apparently, there's the hardest owl on
the planet to replicate is the brownfish owl, which is so low that most people can't even
reproduce the sound. Okay, it's almost impossible to do. I'm the farm brown. Oh,
brownfish. You got you got your misnamed yourself. So you have. Yeah, good. Yeah,
you have, like every everyone obviously thinks that owls just hoots and go hoot or whatever.
But they shriek, yap, chitter, squeal, squawk, warble. This is all from the book that you read.
The Suty Owl makes a noise. It only speaks to Matthew Corbett. Really?
What's that, Suty Owl? Is it named after us? No, it's because it's Suty as in the colour of
Sutt. They make a sound like a dropping bomb. Wow, that's amazing. I'm not sure if they have the
bomb bit at the end. I think it's just the thing. That's very cool. And the northern sore wet owl,
if he wants to find a, if it's a male and wants to find a female, then he does exactly 112 toots
per minute to try and attract her. And he'll do that from half an hour after sunset until half an
hour before sunrise. So all night he's doing 112 toots per minute. Wow. Isn't that incredible?
If a female comes into his territory and he notices her, he ratches it up to 260 toots per
minute. Right. And then if she buggers off, then he'll follow her doing 160 toots per minute.
Wow. Do they have secular breathing? Is it like beatboxing? Can they do...
It's a great question. You probably need that, wouldn't you? I would say so. I don't know how
the syrinx of Owl works, but yeah, you would think they would have to breathe as well.
Here's another question. It's so odd that this is a part of the show because of the last fact,
but we used to leave my sister's Barbie dolls outside on a little veranda bit in Australia
where we lived. And we didn't play with them for a long time because none of them could stand.
She lost interest. And we went out one day and we got the toys out. And Barbie was basically
hairless, bold-headed, right? And what we realized was a bird had been stealing strands of hair and
making a nest in a tree up. And I looked online all day to see whether or not that is a real thing,
because that's my memory of it, that we went out and we made that connection. And I saw there was
one image of the Barbie doll in its hole as part of a bird's nest, so the bird had grabbed the hair
and incorporated it into the nest. But do you think that's... Yeah, 100% that happens.
And it does happen in Owls as well. So the burrowing owl will try and put loads of really
impressive stuff in his burrow. One to impress the females, but another one to say, "I'm so great,
I managed to get all this stuff." And so they'll get corn stalks, corn cobs, moss, Andy. Lovely.
Yeah, lovely. The vertebrae of deer, sometimes they'll put on the outside. This is like decorating
the nest, but they will take lots of things that humans have put, like bits of cloth and stuff like
that, bits of concrete. And the idea, and always the idea is that the more difficult it is for
an owl to get it, the more impressive it is to the female and also to the other males that he
doesn't want in his area. So if I got all these bits of concrete, you do not want to fuck with me.
I need to move us on, guys, to our next fact. I have a fact, but it's a bit sad. Oh, okay.
Can I say it anyway? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm really sorry about this. Famous owl owners.
Uh-huh. Are you asking for them? Yeah, why not? Florence Nightingale.
Yep. Oh. Well, that was the one. Florence Nightingale.
You said it's a sad fact, but I feel pretty happy.
I was wondering if anyone might go anywhere else, but no, yeah, Florence Nightingale.
Harry Potter. Yeah, everyone at Harry Potter's got an owl.
Sting. Sting. I'm taking a punt.
Florence Nightingale, she had an owl called Athena, which she took from some little boys,
were kind of playing with this owl and maybe mistreating it. She looked after it. She looked
after it her whole, or its whole life. And because when war broke out in Crimea,
she had to go to the war. She couldn't take the owl with her. And so she put her owl in the attic,
and she thought they would be able to just kill all the mice that lived there,
and stuff like that would be fine. But it was domesticated so much it didn't know how to catch.
It's a sad fact. I should never have ended on this. And unfortunately, yeah.
But a medical owl fact. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah.
That's the top of that. So lots of medieval recipes last year were digitized by Cambridge
University, and a cure for gout is salting an owl, baking it until it be ground into a powder,
mixing it with boar's grease to make a salve, and rubbing it on the sufferer's body to cure the
gout. That's another sad fact. Every three seconds, another owl dies. In 2005, an owl who lived at
Warwick Castle was given L plates because he was so bad at flying. Unfortunately, they were so heavy,
he crashed into the ground and died. All right, we need to move on. It's time for fact number three,
and that is James. Okay, my fact this week is that the poet William Blake's boss once visited
him and his wife only to find them completely naked. It turns out they liked to cosplay as Adam
and Eve. It's a great course. It's brilliant. It's brilliant, isn't it? He was a big fan of
Milton, wasn't he, Blake? Milton, yeah. So actually what they were doing, so just to say
Milton, Paradise Lost, they were reading some John Milton, and they possibly, William Blake,
as well as being a poet, he was known artist, and he might have wanted to illustrate Milton,
and they thought that maybe he persuaded his wife that they would both read it and pretend to be
Adam and Eve, so that maybe he'd be able to see the postures that they got into, and he'd be able
to do some good accurate drawings in his illustration of Milton. Very convoluted, isn't it? A way to get
your wife pregnant? Naked, yes. Same thing. But yeah, this is Blake's patron who was called Thomas
Butts. Thomas Seymour Butts. One day he went to visit Blake because he was his patron. He was
going to give him some money maybe, and he turned up, knocked on the door. Someone let him in,
and it turned out that Blake and his wife were in the garden, and Blake said, "Come on in, it's only
Adam and Eve, you know." And they were trying out naked postures. And this story comes from the first
biography of William Blake by a guy called Alexander Gilchrist, is what made Blake famous,
because he is a very famous poet now. He did, what did he do? Tiger, tiger, burning drawing,
all that kind of stuff. But before this, he wasn't famous at all. This very, very well-researched
biography has this story. Some of Blake's friends or relatives of their friends said that it might
not have been true, but most modern biographers, I think, pretty much believe it. The ONDB says
that it does not seem out of character that this happened. That they would be naked. Yeah.
He was a very visionary, imaginative, unusual guy. So in fact, he was constantly seeing angels and
having visions, and he was just like a full-on inner life, basically. And in fact, there's a thing
about him that's connected to something one of us has. Oh, yeah. What, Blake? Yeah. Daddy issues?
It's mummy issues, I like that. No, so James has a fantasia. I do. And that's where you can't
visualise things in your mind. Yeah, so if I close my eyes, I can't imagine what things look like.
Yeah, yeah. So Blake, we reckon, or historians reckon, might have had hyperphantasia, which is
where you see lots and lots and lots of things that often aren't there. So it's sort of an
opposite-y thing there. But yeah, a lot of people think... It is really interesting that, because
like, if I close my eyes, I can just see nothing. It's just dark. I can't imagine things. Can't
imagine what Square looks like. Can't imagine what my wife looks like. Just can't imagine anything.
Can't imagine what Dan's mum looks like. Obviously, I can imagine that. Yeah. But it goes through
different sort of phases. So there are some people who can just kind of make out slight images. There
are some people who can almost see an entire movie that goes on in their head. Like, they can imagine
their first day at school and they'll see it happening in their head. And then there are some
people like Blake, who is a hyperphantasia, who can just imagine almost anything and things almost
come into him and he's not sure if they're real or not real. Yeah, it sounds like a mad life he had.
Yeah, well, I mean, there's lots of people who were like, he was just quite mentally ill, but thought
he was seeing visions. But it started from when he was really, really young. So when he was four years
old, he first saw God's head in a window. And they described it as the first of many visions
he would recount in the ordinary unempathetic tone in which we speak of trivial matters.
So he was just kind of completely on his side, God's heads in the window.
Well, that's yeah, because they came so much to him. It wasn't just angels and gods, it was the past
people of the world. So kings and famous artists and stuff like that to the point where he would
be sitting there, say, have a conversation with William Wallace. He's just having a chat in his
head and then he'd get pissed off because King Edward I would suddenly just blunder in and he'd
be like, Edward, we're trying to have a chat here. What are you doing? He would get pissed off with
the visions as well because there were too many going on. Yeah, interrupting. Incredible. That's
weird because he painted the body of Edward I, the embalmed body of Edward I who died 400, 500
years before. They opened up the tomb and he got to have a go at painting it. That is so weird,
isn't it? The idea that they would just open up the tomb of a dead monarch and just say, oh,
you can paint them for an hour and then we'll close it again. It was one hour. It was like a
supermarket sweep thing and you had one hour to paint Edward I. And it was literally the king?
It was the king. It was the Edward I. It was so weird. Has that ever been done since? 1774, they did it.
How old he was when he did that? Was he a child? No, he was young. He was young. Is he still around
then? Is he in barmed bodies? No, all these people are dead. If he was in barmed, will he still be
there? Yes, they sealed up the tomb again. We could bring Edward I up. Damien Hurst has him this
year. Don't give him to Hurst. If you were going to open up the tomb of Edward, you should just
slip into his arms a little mummified sex doll. Speaking of sex dolls, no, speaking of Catherine,
Eve in this cosplay scenario, this roleplay, sexy roleplay they were having, apparently Catherine
was great crack. She was like jokes. She was like a great cook. And one of the things that she used
to do, despite being a great cook, was to serve up like empty plates as a reminder that he needed
to start bringing some money home. Pointless when you're serving it to someone who has constant
visions. He's like, well, hamburgers again. Apparently Blake really loved to eat cold
mutton and drink pints of porter from the local pub, but he didn't like wine glasses, which he
considered an absurd affectation, said from someone who cosplays as Adam and Eve. And once he
accepted a gift from admire, which was a whole bottle of walnut oil, he didn't know what to do
with it. So he drank it all monger. Oh, my God. He and his wife seem to have had a very nice
relationship in almost all the time. There was no evidence he was unfaithful to her
ever. There was a bit of gossip, but they loved talking. They loved walking. They ran their
whole business together because he was a printer basically. And she and he together worked out
the printing process. And they designed, they engraved, they printed, they made their own ink.
Like they had this idea that if we can control every element of the production process,
everything except printing their own paper, then we'll control all of it, we'll make a load of
money. And they did not do that. It's tragic because he was obviously seen as one of the
greatest geniuses ever produced. And yet his poems sold, I think songs of innocence and experience
sold something like 20 copies in 30 years. It was really bad. Jerusalem sold nothing,
did no business. Just absolutely nothing at all. So why was he allowed to paint a king?
Like what was the lead? I don't know. I think he was really quite young at that time. So I think
he might have been studying or whatever. But he also, I'm very envious of his death because
he is someone who did not think death was scary. I'm someone who does get scared of death and the
idea of no more consciousness. And I know a lot of people aren't, but he particularly believed
in the afterlife so much that on his deathbed, he was literally singing with excitement on the day
he died going, you know, I'm going to the next place. Yeah. Yeah. Like whatever the song was.
Those kind of sound like the words he would have used, right? As an amazing poet. But
and so his wife was upset, but also at the same time, she was like, cool, I'll catch you, I'll
catch you soon. And on her death day, she was calling to him as if he was in the next room going,
I'll be with you in a minute, William. I'm on my way. What a great way out. Yeah. He was a good
husband, I think. He once wrote that the female vulva is a little model of a chapel of God
that husbands must daily worship. Okay. Wow. Yeah, it's nice. It is nice. It's like an eternal chamber,
you might say. And he's popular culture wise. You can see his footprint everywhere in ways
you might not recognize. I'm like your sister's Barbie. So okay, the band, The Doors, The Doors
of Perception, that was a Blake poem that that's where Jim Morrison and the band got that line from.
So that's down to Blake. Allen Ginsberg, one of the great American beat poets, read a poem of his
and he felt the presence of God. And he said, he said immediately afterwards, oh my God,
I've just experienced something I've never experienced before. This poem and the LSD I took.
I don't know if there was LSD, but he, yeah. So presence of God stuff. Do people sort of know
what Jerusalem is about? Because it's a series of weird interlinked questions. I thought it was like
that Jerusalem comes to England or something like maybe Joseph of Arimathea is going to come to
England or something. That's it. And did those feet in ancient times walk up on England's mountains
green? It's about the myth that Jesus went to Glastonbury. That's literally what there was a
myth that Jesus attended Glastonbury. So Jesus had a great uncle who was Joseph of Arimathea,
like James says. And he was a sailor and maybe he came to Cornwall to buy some tin. And then maybe
they walked around Glastonbury for a bit. And this is when Jesus was tiny. And that was the idea
behind that. That was the idea that Blake was writing about. In fact, it turns out Jesus didn't
go to Glastonbury, obviously. The story was made up by monks in the 12th century to boost the
tourism industry of the area. It's such a good scam. Okay, great. 1184, you're a monk. Your abbey's
burned down. Nightmare. You need to rebuild it. You need to raise some cash. So all you do is you
just say King Arthur came from here, you know, and no one can prove you wrong because it's the
12th century. They don't know fact checkers. And then King Arthur, you just add Jesus into
that and say, oh, Jesus came here too, actually. And the monks, this was the great bit of the con.
They built a wooden church in a style that would have been built centuries before to make it look
like their monastery was way older and might have hosted King Arthur and Jesus. At the same time.
I don't know if there was a kind of supergroup element to it, but it was kind of like, it was
just like, oh, this is a very, very old place. That was their claim. And it was nonsense from
start to finish, but it worked because Glastonbury became the second richest abbey in the entire
country, partly because of this myth of, oh, yeah, Jesus, he was here. I've always said it,
you can't trust bugs. Well, they got their comeuppance. You'll be glad to hear Sophie, just 400
years later. And what was the comeuppance? They had to say 12 Hail Marys. That was the dissolution
of the monasteries. I admit, as a pretty neat reference to make, sorry. Okay, it is time for
our final fact of the show. And that is my fact. My fact this week is that Lady Bird orgasms last
for 30 minutes. Pretty astonishing 30 minutes. Yeah. So their sex can last up to nine hours.
So hence that's proportional orgasm, possibly to the amount of sex time that they're having.
Well, yeah, what's that? What did you say? Half an hour. There's one 18th of the total
time having sex. So that's a full second orgasm. Two minutes. Yep.
Check that. Carry on. Wait, did you say two minutes? No, my numbers are all off then.
So yeah, so they, yeah, nine hours. Nine hours. And actually during that time, the female might
often get a bit bored and go around looking for food while the male is attached to the back of her.
Well, that's the weird thing. There's been, they've seen sometimes this is how clueless the male Lady
Bird is during the sex that sometimes they'll get four hours into the sex and they'll be like,
oh, she's dead. They don't even know that for four hours they were sleeping with a dead Lady Bird.
It's not incredible. Males are very, what's the one I'm looking for? Necrophilic?
No, they're just sort of they're very inattentive, male Lady Birds. They're very...
Are you being an apologist for Necrophilia, male Lady Birds?
I cannot stress enough that I don't think our puny human judgment is applying this universe.
No, so if a male Lady Bird meets another Lady Bird, he will climb on top of it no matter what.
Oh, regardless. Regardless. And it might not be a female, you know. So Warwick University wrote
an amazing study about the love lives of Lady Birds and they reported that if a male meets
another he will immediately make a full-hearted attempt to climb on top of the other one.
If he discovers that he has mounted another male, he will retreat immediately.
But if he was lucky to have met a female, he will try to sleep with her.
So they don't notice anything really. They just bump into another Lady Bird and start
climbing up it. Yeah, because they can only see two centimetres ahead of them.
So if there's something that looks a little bit like a Lady Bird there, you might as well have a go.
Gosh. Really? And sometimes female Lady Birds get mounted by male Lady Birds,
which are not even the same species of Lady Bird. Yeah. And they say, "What are you doing?
We're not even the same thing." I mean, it's hard to tell the gender of a Lady Bird from two
centimetres' sight. But it's your Lady Bird. But you're all Lady Birds. It's not Lady Birds and
Laddie Birds. It's all Lady Birds. Yeah. They're all Lady Birds. You all look basically the same,
even though you can have different colours of Lady Bird. You can have red Lady Birds,
orange Lady Birds, black Lady Birds, blue Lady Birds. Wait, maybe I'll make that one up.
Orange, black, brown and red. Those are the main types. There have been reports of
purple Lady Birds, but those are unreliable. One thing that I really like to my Lady Bird
research is that they're not a lot of Lady Birds in popular culture, but there is one Lady Bird
who is possibly Pixar's first transgender character, which is Francis from A Bugs Life.
If Francis from A Bugs Life is constantly being misgendered as a lady, which he gets very upset
about, but if the Pixar forums, people have, I suppose, that maybe Francis is a
delusion to a trans character. You're all taking that very seriously. Pixar did not do that.
But it is a constantly misgendered Lady Bird in A Bugs Life.
It's hard to tell the species of Lady Bird because in the UK we have a seven-spot Lady Bird,
which is the most common, but you might get a 22-spot Lady Bird, a 13-spot Lady Bird,
10-spot Lady Bird, two-spot Lady Bird, 18-spot Lady Bird. These are all different species.
And you know how you can tell which is which? Oh, number of spots. No.
This is the amazing thing. Some seven-spot Lady Birds can have anywhere between about five and
nine spots, and 11-spot Lady Birds can have something like nine to maybe 15, something like that.
What was the point of anything then? What was the point of science?
It's most of them do have the number of spots that their name says, but the problem is that some of
them don't, and like some of the spots sort of merge into each other, so you can have a seven-spot,
but actually five of the spots sort of all molded into one spot, so it's like just three spots.
You know what? I'm coming around to the point of view of the male Lady Bird here.
If you don't even have the decency to have the number of spots that your literal name is,
that's crazy. Yeah, that's another crazy thing is that if they're mating, because obviously,
as I said, it can go up to nine hours, if they're mating and it gets the sun down
and the temperature drops, they become immobilized and they're just kind of stuck there. Yeah.
Oh my god, so if you're going to do nine hours, you pretty much have to start
quite early in the morning, don't you? There's no point starting at midday because it's going to be...
Yeah, you've got to time it right, but you know, another argument in my favor for the solar powered
arms to give you night time energy. Six arms. Six arms. Six arms, yeah. I've got quite a cute Lady
Bird fact. Do you know who the Lady Bird's named after? A German cool girl? No, she's named...
She's slushy. They, the Lady Bird's are named after people think in lots of languages are Lady
the Virgin Mary. It was often depicted wearing a red cloak in like lots of things, but the word
Lady Bird in other languages and Irish, it's, I can't say it, it's boy day. Okay. It means God's
little cow. God's little cow. I feel like the Virgin Mary in heaven is like... Yeah, yeah.
So the German word for Lady Bird is Marian Kaffa, which is Mary Beatles. It's using the
surname of Virgin Mary in that instance. Her first name was Virgin. Mum, Dad, why did you name me that?
Can we talk a bit about the Lady Bird explosion of 1976? Yes, please. This is great. Okay.
So Dan's mum was just a teenager. This is a thing that happened in 1976. The weather conditions
for some reason were right. So 1975 was quite a good summer, then the winter was mild, then the
spring was warm, right? So what you had, you had this, you had all the preconditions for this amazing
number of Lady Bird's. Apparently during the summer of 1976, 400 miles of tide line on the South and
East coast of England were nothing but Lady Bird's. Really? They were just solid Lady Bird's.
What? They think there might have been something like 23 billion Lady Bird's in the tide line at
any one time, which is more than double the number of humans there have ever been.
This is 1976. This is 1976. This is for one particular day in 1976, that 23 billion number.
Does anyone here must have been of age in 1976? Does anyone remember that?
There were a lot of Lady Bird's. There were a lot of Lady Bird's!
It's good. Well, burration, corroboration. There were a lot of Lady Bird's. You weren't wrong. There
were a lot of Lady Bird's. That's the happiest I've ever been. That's how we do our fact checking.
The author who was writing about this, who was, his surname was Majeris, said, "I was walking in
Brighton in late July. I tried a little experiment, walking along the almost deserted beach with a
cone of yellowish vanilla ice cream held inside my jacket. I then held it out and timed how long
it took to become completely submerged in Lady Bird's." Oh my God, like hundreds and thousands.
Yeah. Well, probably only 40 or 50, but no, the point is, 28 seconds. 28 seconds after he got the
ice cream out of his coat, it was covered in Lady Bird's. That's how many there were just around.
Wow. It was huge. Oh my God. Yeah. They fly so fast as well. They fly as fast as like a fast horse runs.
That's how fast. That's fast. That's fast, yeah. That's what, like, yeah. And yet the plans for the
Lady Bird Grand National seem never, ever to get going. So sad. What's that, 40 miles an hour?
They can't go 40 miles an hour. They go really fast. If it's windy. Yeah, yeah.
Who's timing a Lady Bird? There is a Norse legend that a Lady Bird, the Lady Bird came to Earth on
a bolt of lightning. So it's probably just someone watching her. Whoa, yeah. That's cool. You're
like, "That's like a fast horse." That's amazing. They get pubic lice as well, Lady Bird's.
Are they? Yeah, it's the equivalent. So it's pubic lice. I'm doing air quotes here. Ectoparasitic
mites is what they get. But they, so they, Lady Birds are just absolutely riddled with STDs,
because they shag so much and they spread it. So the mites hide underneath the shell. So you would
never see you in the mites. Although I've seen photos of STD riddled Lady Birds and it's...
Those spots are natural, Dan. Well, I started off as a seven-spot, but I don't know what's going on here.
But it's hard to hide when you see like a really riddled, so like, because they
get like fungi and stuff like that. So they come in and they look like they're wearing greenery on
them. The fungi one's interesting because that has become a real problem over the last few years.
Yeah. Pretty much most of the Lady Birds you get in this country and around the world are starting
to get this fungi. But we don't know for sure that it's harmful. So we know that they're all
getting it and they all seem to get it from sex or actually in a nice way. Sometimes they like
to cuddle together and they can catch the fungus that way. So it's not always an STD. But we don't
know for sure that it's harmful. It could be just like getting athlete's foot. So it could be just
like we all have a big cuddle. We all get athlete's foot and we're kind of fine. Might be a little bit
uncomfortable. Darling, it's fine. We were we were cuddling and then I came home and that was it.
They're just pubic lice in air quotes. It's fine.
I feel like we've got quite personal with the Lady Birds.
Well, can I say something about orgasms then very quickly?
Yeah. Yes. Clean it up.
So psychologists at Madrid University collected a lot of images of the faces of people when they
orgasmed and they noted that 92 percent had their eyes closed, 79 percent had a dropping of the jaw
and 64 percent were frowning. So if you're having sex with your partner is eyes shut,
slack jawed with a frown on their face, then it means you're doing it right.
I've never been more conscious of the muscles of my face.
Not wanting to do anything with them.
Oh, that's so interesting, James. Thank you.
It's just science then.
No, I know. I love science.
I've got orgasm fat.
Oh, yeah. Go for it.
So if we imagine if we've got the fantasy of the two Lady Birds having sex, they reach climates,
the sun goes down and they're frozen like that forever, you think, what an amazing way to go?
Yes.
And so I was like, are there any people who were famously or allegedly died during sex?
Yeah, that's good.
And there is a list of people who have allegedly died at the point of climates and it's got one
president and four popes. Four popes. Wow.
Pope Leo the 7th, Pope John the 12th, Pope John the 18th, Pope Paul the 2nd.
They all apparently died while shagging.
Oh, my God.
Funny fact, they all died on the same day.
There was a lot of white smoke.
Well, that's it. That's all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we've said over the course
of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Scriberland. James.
@JamesHarkin.
Andy.
@AndrewHunterM.
And Sophie.
@SophieDukeBox.
Yep.
Or you can go to our group account, which is @NoSuchThing or our website.
NoSuchThingAsAfish.com.
All of our previous episodes are up there.
You can check them out.
Thank you so much, everyone, for being here at this very late hour here in Soho Theatre.
Thank you so much, Sophie, for being with us on stage.
We'll see you all again next time.
Thank you so much.
Good night.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(upbeat music)